We're coming to the end of
part two of the tutorial.
This section is a little bit of
a mishmash, we've got a bunch of different
special elements that Svelte
provides to your components.
And they don't really have anything
in common with each other,
other than the fact that they
belong to the Svelte namespace.
So the first of these is Svelte self, and
that is something that allows a component
to reference itself recursively.
And it's useful things like
this folder tree view,
where a folder can contain another folder.
So inside our folder.svelte component.
We would wanna be able to do something
like this, where we have the file here,
we'd like to be able to add a folder
that references the same component, but
that's impossible because
a module can't import itself.
So instead, we use svelte:self here.
And now,
the folder is containing other folders.
And we can do that to an arbitrary depth.
An interesting fact about this is that,
if you try and do this at the top level of
a component, it will yell at you,
because that would cause an infinite loop.
But it's smart enough to know that that
is not a thing that you should be doing.
Now, a component can change its
type altogether with the Svelte
component element.
In this exercise,
we wanna show RedThing.svelte,
if the value of the selected color is red.
And we wanna show a green
thing if it's green.
And we wanna show blue thing if it's blue,
and so on.
Now, we could do this with a sequence of,
if blocks inside of .svelte,
like we started doing here.
And then, if we select a different color,
it would show the green thing and
the blue thing.
But that's a lot of code to have to write,
it's more convenient to
make that data driven.
So we'll create a single dynamic
component, get rid of that entire block.
Add Svelte component.
And then the attribute is called this.
I'm gonna pass in the selected component.
So you see up here that the value
that is getting passed in is actually
the constructor of the component.
And now, when we change the value
of that via the select,
we're rendering a different component.
And we can do the same
thing with elements, right?
In the same way, we could have,
if selected = h1,
we'll have a block of h1 content,
if selected = h2, and so on.
But that's just no fun, instead, get rid
of all of that, And use Svelte element.
And put some content inside.
I'm a less than selected,
greater than,
I would like, so and then now,
if we change to one of the other options,
It recreates the DOM automatically And so,
the value of this can be any string or
it can be a falsy value, in which case
no element will be rendered at all.
We've already seen how you can add
event listeners to DOM elements.
We can also add event listeners
to the window object using
the special Svelte window element.
In this exercise,
whenever we focus the window and
press a key, we would like to
show what key was pressed.
We're gonna assign these key and
key code values, and
then we're gonna show that inside the app.
All right, and
this is just a more convenient way
of using window.addEventListener.
It will automatically remove event
listeners when this component is
unmounted.
And just like with DOM elements, you can
use event modifiers like preventDefault.
As well as adding events to Svelte window,
we bind to certain properties of it.
So here we've got a nice little piece
of artwork generated by Midjourney.
And we would like to bind the current
scroll position to this y value.
And we can do that very
easily bind scroll y = y.
And now when we scroll, it's reflected.
Again, it's given as fractional
values because my site is zoomed in.
So just change that and
it updates smoothly.
And that's a bidirectional binding.
If you change the value of y,
it will also update the scroll position.
So there are a few different properties
that you can bind to, width, height,
scroll, and also the online binding, which
is an alias for window.navigator.online.
This is useful for displaying
a message like, you lost the Internet,
you need to reconnect to WiFi or
something like that.
As well as the window,
we have a way of adding event
listeners to the body element.
Which you typically are not rendering
yourself because normally you would mount
your cell components inside the body,
you don't control the actual body.
So we have svelte body to listen to
events like mouseenter and mouseleave.
And mouseenter, we want this
hereKitty value to become true.
And we'll just copy that line and reverse
it on mouseleave, it becomes false.
And then now, if we enter the iframe,
kitty comes out to play.
Similarly, we have the Svelte
document element, which is useful for
the selectionchange handler in particular
which does not fire on the window.
So we can add this on
selectionchange event listener.
Which is gonna get
the current selection and
assign it to this selection value there.
You can also selects itself, which kinda
gets pretty crazy, I don't recommend it.
And then,
we can also add a Svelte head element.
Which is very useful for things like SEO,
you can add a document title.
You can add descriptions and
things like that that will
appear in search results pages.
That's what it's mostly useful for,
although it's not visible in
the context of this tutorial.
So we're gonna use something
a little bit different.
We're gonna use it to load a stylesheet.
Add the Svelte head element.
And then inside the link
rel equals stylesheet.
And we have a selection of stylesheets
up here that we can pick from.
Beginning with the Margaritaville theme,
and
you can pick whichever
of these you must enjoy.
So getting into the nuts and
bolts of how the compiler works,
when you invoke the Svelte compiler,
which typically you're not doing,
your bundler plugin is doing this for you.
But when that happens,
you can pass options to the compiler that
control how the component is compiled.
But those are for
all of the components in your app.
Sometimes you wanna have some compile
options that are component specific,
and that's where we use
the Svelte options element.
There's a few different options that
you can pass to the compiler and
we'll use the immutable
option as our example.
So in this app, whenever we change
the value of one of these todos,
all of the todos
are updated simultaneously.
That's because we have
an afterUpdate function here,
which causes the element to flash
whenever the value is updated.
And that's not really a problem here,
that's fine because it's gonna be fast
enough that it's not gonna affect
the performance of your application.
But you might have some situations where
you have some very complex data, and
you just wanna make sure that a component
doesn't update unless you know for
sure that its values have changed.
So we can tell the to do
component that it should only ever
update anything when the data that has
passed into it changes by reference,
as opposed to when it is told
that its data has changed.
This isn't something that you use often,
but
it's a handy thing in some circumstances.
So now, if I change the value
of any of these todos,
only the todo in question is being
updated, the others are being left alone.
A few other options that you can set are,
accesses,
controls whether or
not the instance of a component exposes
its props as accesses on the object
that you have a reference to.
You can pass in a custom namespace and
you can control the tag name
if you're compiling your Svelte
components as custom elements.
If you wanna know more about these,
consult the API reference.
Okay, earlier we learned about using
slots to pass content into a component.
In this exercise,
we're making a Tic-Tac-Toe game.
And we have a board component,
and inside.boardcomponent,
we're passing some content
which is supposed to
appear in each of the grid
cells defined by the board.
So if you look inside the board component,
we are creating a grid,
which has a certain number of columns and
a certain number of rows.
But what's happening
here is because we have,
a div with the slot equals game attribute,
we're putting all of the buttons
inside the first element and
it's not being spread out
into the rest of the grid.
What we wanna have is
these buttons as direct
children of the div class = board.
And we can do that by replacing
that div with a Svelte fragment.
All right, and so
now the buttons that we're declaring here
are direct children of
the div class equals board.